It's.
No.
OK done any issue.
So guys, I'm coming back.
Let me just resolve my issue.
Yeah.
OK.
And you're not going to do.
122.
Oh, I think this is for this one.
Evening.
Let's.
You're asking. Let me check.
OK.
So they want to go now, right? Hello.
Yeah.
Yes, asking for Juma prayer. One just.
Yeah, yeah. Juma is quite early.
I see actually.
Yes, Sir.
OK, so when you want to ask,
please just unmute yourself and ask
We need to start.
because here during the session.
We're not able to set.
We are going to break early for June,
So what time we will be back.
Two hours. Two hours break too.
Two hours.
2:30.
Put the tea. Put the tea. Put the tea.
To put to the.
Yeah.
It's 1240, so you will become by 2:40,
right?
23230 OK, OK.
Fine go, no problem.
Thank you, Sir.
You're most welcome.
Yeah.
So 240 will start after this,
so we'll complete.
So who wanna go for the prayer?
They can leave and you can complete this.
We will start at 2:40.
After this you can also take a rest.
Over here is.
This philtre example right?
Have you done?
It's already here.
OK.
Fine.
Can you share again the the the page?
I couldn't get it.
OK.
OK, let me share this.
Fine, this one is here.
I'm also stopping after this because
otherwise they will miss out the things
right so.
This is the thing.
210 equal 2.
I make I make the the dictionary,
but when I print you say an error or I
Mm-hmm.
have to put the OK sorry sorry I missed
the first rupee. OK, all right. Sorry.
OK, it's OK.
Right.
OK, got it.
Is it correct now?
Yeah, yeah.
Two items.
Alright, yeah.
So now you guys can go for the break 240
we will start.
Hey, welcome back.
Hope everyone is here now.
I'm going to share the screen.
This one we have displayed right.
Let them complete 2 minutes.
OK, please settle down all of you,
please join quickly.
OK.
Somebody. No, shut up.
Online online.
The one not going out.
What's this last week? It's about. Yeah,
I miss azir. I'll check right now.
Meeting meeting.
Yeah, I would like to have a thing.
I'm ready for one more.
About the how's the training going on Mr
Salman, whatever so far discussed? Yeah,
I have some concern about Python
understanding.
The Python you know, language programming,
language understanding.
So I I want to know actually.
How? How?
I want to analyse OK. What what? Why?
I mean what is happening?
How is it going on with the with the
overall training as maybe the Python part?
Because we started with the Python right?
So?
What is? How is your understanding you?
Are you able to connect the dots or it's
totally blur but I would say myself
personally 60% connected but I think
because of language barrier and we don't
know how to.
Ask ask, OK, but then everything you like.
Yeah, sometimes. OK, fine. Yeah. Yes, I'm.
I'm just I let's speak the truth.
I I I totally. I'm totally zero. OK, OK.
So I do understand the dingo.
OK, I'm not talking about his.
The legal of the the legal of the objects.
Yeah,
I think a lot of the guys or here they
are also having the same issue.
Issue the issue because that's the fact
that it's not from the computer science
background nobody.
No.
It is ID level, yeah.
So ID we that is what?
How the yeah sequel. Yeah.
Sequel things in the computer.
We're not into the very depth. Exactly.
Yes.
You're touching the core of the system,
actually. Yeah. That is the yes,
Python actually the world famous.
Yes to programming language now many
companies like huge class companies.
They're using it.
Yes,
but of course we're we're not living that
that level of Python.
We're just starting on the basics, yes.
However, that basic also is, you know,
enough to trouble us. Yeah.
It's not exactly happening. OK. Like,
I wish that I have.
I have spoken to Aishree.
It's not in this direction plus.
I might come.
I would like to come to learn only for
the lingo that make.
It's like we're learning the ABC, OK,
from the scratch.
So I will understand what is each coding
OK commands for before in terms to the
city, but OK, on the first day,
I think in my opinion that the piece of
it is that we are in terms to the city.
The cinemas. Yes, I know. Yes,
I know this one. How is that so?
It's like no idea.
But you can only whatever that you can
pick someone to copy and paste.
And if you feel that you don't keep so
dumb,
you go to the and we get the idea there
and then we paste it over the.
The visual code and we compare that which
is right or wrong. That is what I mean.
OK, so I just be frank here. Oh, yeah.
Fantastic. Wonderful. Yeah. That,
that that's how we should be. Yes.
When it when it comes to learning,
I will not compromise as well even why
when I sit down for some learning who I
I'm a I'm a poor learner from others.
Yeah, my my limitation is I sit down,
learn myself.
I can learn a lot because I have my my
way of learning my time.
I spend my time I 10 times I go back
because I don't understand.
Also like some other the trainer,
maybe do advance.
Maybe you know he has bone skill,
but my skill is not like his skill.
So what I.
I do personally because I'm a poor
learner. I know about myself.
I'm not talking about you guys, OK?
Personally, I'm like that.
So I spend a lot of time.
So to learn something.
For some others it may take maybe five
days. For example,
for me to take one month.
So what I do I was I mean,
I have been a trainer,
but for a long time I I learn in the in
the way that I can train because I I
think from the the student point of view,
what student?
Question will be what is your good
question when I have a problem like this,
my student also will have a programme
like that right?
So my my lending will go like that.
So I go slowly, slowly I go back again.
I do all these things,
everyone coming back to the topic.
Yeah.
So that that there is a problem of
prerequisite and no prior IT exposure,
that problem is there because some of you
are changing carrier.
Some of you are just touching ID without
doing anything else only directly coming
to the you know the programming language.
So that that actually this kind of
learning,
if there is a is a prior IT learning that
would really help otherwise like IT
thinking like what I mean by IT thinking
is like you eventually may start thinking
I I think.
I mean thinking,
thinking in the problem solving at all.
Like for example like when I when I when
we say for example like.
IT thinking in the sense like doing
things every day we we talk about it.
In the college hall,
like you spend maybe one year from the
lecturer speaking about IT.
So those things all indirectly
unconsciously, subconsciously,
will make you think IT. Yeah,
that that actually.
We take time and it will happen slowly,
slowly only.
But now that this class just started,
jump started it, jump started.
And you know what's happening is quite
expected. I had.
I even explained to someone on the day
one what has been.
We have discussed this problem will come.
And it kept so it's an expected problem
and something not unexpected.
So the solution for this is like you said
extra class OK which now you can go with
Mr Salma, OK?
On Saturday,
if you want so where you guys have to
make a, you know,
like the the the what we call it
initiative,
yes initiative difference to ask and
learn if you don't ask it's not good.
Whatever that you can ask, ask.
Please ask Sir, we don't understand.
There is a point that where trainer and
student will differently meet. OK,
so that that that will settle down slowly
slowly. Only things can happen.
Actually you start from basic for example
like.
A programming language?
Why do you need a programming language?
We start computers.
They understand only programming language
and because like humans speak general
languages like English and you know
French and all,
so computers only understand for
programming languages.
So how to talk to computers?
For a human being should be able to talk
to the computers,
so the only way is the programming
language. Yeah,
you can give instructs controlling the
computer exactly. It's under the computer,
so computers will do following your
instructions.
So the instructions you have to give to
the computer using the programming
language. Otherwise you won't understand.
Whatever you type and execute will it
work? Doesn't work.
Whatever you type in English language and
execute will it work?
It will not work because there's not the
language computer understands.
Fortunately, unfortunately.
So Python happened to be one of the
easiest language. You haven't seen Java.
You haven't seen other PHP languages you
haven't seen C language you haven't seen
V language.
You haven't seen other JavaScript.
This thing, that thing.
Like Ruby and Rains,
so many programming languages are there
which the syntax is very troublesome.
Java is active.
Python happened to be the easiest
language close to the English language.
Yeah. And then,
but also you also misunderstand you will
not be using your learning Python, right?
You will not be fighting programmes on
your life. No, the word is not like that.
Normally,
once you understand the programming,
no flow.
You don't have to write programmes just
now. Now we just go on GPT.
I want the programme to do this.
This the ABCD give the programme.
It will give you in a few seconds,
not in a few seconds less than a
millisecond.
Programme is there,
but will you understand the programme or
no?
That knowledge you need and then you
understand the floor.
Even I'm not a programmer,
but I get programmes from charge PT.
I use them to put into some other pipe,
but the the the code editor like the VS 4.
OK,
I don't know what you're using like in VS
port,
so put it to the VS port and from here I
run.
I make sure that the programme will
connect to the network devices become.
I'm a network engineer,
there are network devices like routers
which is all these kind of firewalls and
all.
I'm. I'm from that background,
so I make this is my programme that I I
created here from this VS editor I
arrange connectivity that the programme
will go and configure the devices.
That's called as a automation.
So if you're thinking why do we need a
programme, this is one of the purposes,
so using the programme normally,
what I do in normal life,
I have to go to the device tenant,
my table, log in and do the configuration.
OK, but now what? What's happening?
The programme I'm writing in the VS code
here,
this programme is going and configuring
the devices itself. Yes,
I execute here and it knows how to
connect, connect,
configure after it will give you the
result.
Something like that. This, this,
this scripts are programmes.
Actually we can create to do certain
tasks.
There are like thousands and thousands of
various purposes. All right,
so that is a that is the use.
That is a purpose. How we work.
Understanding the flow is important.
So like how we learn English language,
we didn't know any language, right?
So language has its own like, you know,
the parts of speech we call them, right.
Like it has its own grammar.
We learn the grammar, right? Yeah,
we learn verbs. We learn nouns.
We learn the the, the, the adverbs,
pronouns. All these things we learn,
conjunctions, interjections, these,
all parts of speech, right.
English language. So.
Like how you learn the language like
Malay, you have a language,
something like that.
This is the language that if you don't
learn about it,
you cannot speak in Python with the
computer. That that's idea.
So you one way take extra classes number
one. Number two you have to start reading.
Watching reading about the language you
have to do it every day.
Then your mind will become IT thinking
mind.
It is one way of reading and watching.
What would you suggest we can we can give
you a list of what? How you can. Yeah,
I can. We can also give you some ebooks.
Just start reading,
you know from the from the.
Yes, to make it the IT thinking, yeah,
so this is how we can sort out this,
but it is a journey.
It's not something that you can you can
sort it out in a day or two, no.
It's not a receipt, it's not there.
So you you you need to go through this
space.
If there is suffering, OK,
they they without suffering,
nothing will happen.
You have to work hard. Yeah.
You have every day. You must spend time.
Read about it. Little bit.
At least 15 minutes. 20 minutes.
You have to spend time.
That that is the plan. So Saturday I I,
Mr Salman,
will be able to spend time with you guys.
So let us know you're coming.
How many of you want to come?
Come maybe half day or full days after
you. That is half day. OK.
Have discussions from the scratch
understandable history of the programme,
languages,
how actually the Python will help here.
OK, why why do we need Python?
What you know other images are there.
So in which fields Python can be used in
artificial intelligence by machine
learning?
Why?
Why Python learn more about this
background?
Why all these things you must ask,
interact and understand?
So these are the solutions for this.
Because moving forward, it's not.
It's not, of course,
it's not going to be simple, right?
Things will become complicated. I mean,
you're learning technology, right?
So day one will be some day two,
it will become more complex.
Day three will become more complex,
the complexity will go up that that is
how we learn.
Otherwise, with basics, what can you do?
Nothing 0 the fundamentals, basic,
nothing. Fundamentals are only to start,
but you have to reach the the last.
So in order to you for you to be there,
there is a, you know, struggle.
Is it going to be enough for six weeks?
You see, normally it is five days,
five days, five days,
morning until evening. For five days.
They teach all these things. Yep,
that is for those people who are on the
United.
So we,
we designed this programme for 30 days
for those people like who are not from
anti background oh.
But all these things actually we start go
fast.
One week programme Minify this programme.
So now we broke it.
We broke it into the small small modules
going slowly, slowly.
You know that is how it became that it is
programme.
It is your banks, universities,
some gaming companies.
These companies are fighters only.
Let us not come back with them because
they are coming from IT background,
so that's different case.
So for you all like a six weeks programme
should be good enough,
but you're coming from a not now on IT
background you have to do some extra work
at home.
Go slow a bit.
In the class actually we have to manage
other participants who are coming from
background, right? They have IT value.
So you can catch up.
You know as much as you can catch up if
30 days. Also.
Let's say you you managed to catch up
only 50% of it.
There are many 50%. Don't worry,
we're still there.
You can keep in touch with us.
We can help you guys wherever possible
you go, you can come.
Maybe for some more sessions later.
You know, extra sessions.
You can come one of online sessions.
I can arrange with the other trainers.
We have other tenant by Mr Yash.
We have one more tenant.
They're all like experts.
So you can join them. Those classes also.
You see those who want to learn.
There are so many ways you all have
intention to learn. There's no problem.
We we we can find this.
OK,
so Mr Arman actually will slow down a bit
now. OK,
so that it fully slow down means others
also will be bore. So to slow down.
It's also like boring sleeping.
So go in the little bit,
slow down and then Saturday you all want
to come come back. OK,
then we see what to do.
I think on Saturday it's just to revise
to recap, but on on, on normal day,
it's just doing like normal topic like on
on on normal P yes that is better.
Yeah that is better.
It's just if you put on Saturday and do
new topics that will be different,
not new topic,
new topic we cannot because we have other
sensor,
right new topic will be in everybody's,
yeah.
That is only only for those like who are
unable to unable to recap and try to
understand that the that absolutely.
So maybe anybody coming please let Aisha
know about it and we'll make it. OK. OK.
Thank you so much. Thank you.
We share in the WhatsApp,
Google what we share in Google,
Google and share the meeting. OK.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Let's begin. So how are you all of you,
Pike? Let's start. See online one, please.
See there are.
There is one discussion is going on.
So if you want the doubt claration.
Cheshan on Saturdays you can decide and
let us know. Otherwise we will continue.
So here we go.
So here is the students marks.
Print all the students.
This one we were doing.
This is using the Philtre right.
So you already left out of views as well,
or there are only this much, right?
I.
OK. OK, got it. So here is.
Yeah.
No. If you'll feel anything,
you have to ask, you can ask husband.
You want to ask something or you just
mute yourself.
No, you you just ask.
The rest I will help you out in the
question as well.
Just raise the hand you have the issue.
You can ask if you are not able to ask
properly that I will help you out.
What do you are asking in that one as
well? Got it.
See here,
here you have asked for example this
thing. We'll go here.
CLS you were working on this one.
So you see here Philtre,
it's coming in this one because we have
printed directly.
We have not used them to display like the
way we want to display, right.
So this one you want to see.
Why it's coming in the curly braces?
So because we have just Sprint here to do
it quickly.
So otherwise what we have to do,
what we have to do,
we have to write here 4 or let's say E
and value.
In.
The student marks dot items.
This is using the dictionaries we have
done right and here is you will like this
tab enter so here.
KKK is for the key key is name here and
this one is value the first one before
the column is key,
the second one after the column is value
right?
So here what you are saying is that
absolutely right K is for name and V for
numbers these marks right?
Right so here is we are printing now we
will print. We are right here.
Uh.
Name.
OK. And name is what name is K, right?
And the then we have, right?
Marks Marks is what?
Marks is V right?
So that we are right and you are right
before that now see you know that's why
you are checking what we have missed out
and all so once you will start doing the
practise we can do the practise you can
go home.
And after that you will see the programme
and close it and start writing yourself.
So if something wrong you can match with
the programme so that way you can do the
practise control CI have copied and I
have write here.
This time,
but this time we don't want to take from
students marks from which one we want.
We have to check which one we have to
check.
Here we have write students marks in
items but this time we want to show the
past student.
So from where we have to check in.
In past students we have to write here in
past students got it.
So the same programme, now we'll go here.
I've killed the screen CLS.
The name.
And marks.
We'll see the output.
The same from the same list we have make
it like this.
Name is Sam marks this one Raj this one
this, this,
this any of the past students are these.
You got it.
OK, do this one.
Then I will ask you one question and you
will try to do that.
And after that we will start the next
topic.
This one is.
Philtre example.
In dictionary.
OK.
So is it an special location?
Today you have given the candy to all or
just.
Huh. Yeah.
There is OK, just due to General City,
huh?
I thought there is some party or some
anniversary or something.
So normally on Friday we'll give oh,
of the Angel.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Every fighting might be 1X something, no?
Yeah.
I should ask the wise.
Anyway.
Done.
Play song.
Sir, if you want to sort the marks,
it sort according to descending order.
Yes.
Can we do that for for this one for
visionary?
Or pass a student.
Yeah.
Yes.
We can do,
we can use the methods I already told you.
See you.
The sword and all you can use can do that.
I'm sorry you're not.
OK.
None, all of you.
For example this one you have,
this is your past students.
Now you want to short them, so even light.
Here you want to short based on the marks,
right?
So short.
Pass a student.
So here is your dictionary.
Sorted Lambda.
We want to short the pass student,
so in place of this one we will write
pass students pass students dot items and
here is.
Ellis.
It's doing harder.
But.
Control is that this one.
So here is Karima. That's not sorted,
right?
947660 no.
OK.
Short based on name or ID which one you
want.
Based on the value based on the box.
OK.
Play song.
Based on marks, right?
Fine.
So based on marks marks is which one
marks is which one one no.
Boxes should be but what?
Box.
So when is your value right?
So here is we will generate.
So so I have to search this one,
I think he.
E is equal to Lambda.
And here is.
Sorted by E Lambda.
And he we have taken from this one.
Dictionary you don't have directly.
The short method we have to do some
arrangement.
Shorted Lambda E.
I.
Not.
OK.
Not the correct send text words.
How about if for all the students,
no matter where the pass or field,
just want to sort?
You're done just a second.
This one is yes, so.
This is the syntax, just a SEC.
So shorted.
Pass the students dot items based on key,
reverse it through so it will do it in
the descending order control E.
Neeraj, 36, SEM 60 Raj 55, Karima, 54.
This is descending order.
If you want in ascending order,
you will remove this one. Reverse true.
Then it will show you.
Play song.
Smaller to greater.
So this is smaller to greater 54 Raj
Yeah.
OK.
55760 near 76 if you will write reverse
true that will go you in the reverse
Yeah.
OK.
order.
Let me just show you in the same format.
Yeah.
Control C control V here is we have right
in short pass student short pass students
Yeah.
OK.
Yeah.
item. This one syntax is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Building this. Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Short pass the students.
Play song.
Yeah.
Here is the pass student, Garima,
this Raj,
Sam this is in ascending order if you
want in descending this is ascending.
The.
Yeah.
Let me write one more time.
Yeah.
This is ascending.
Descending you want.
This is descending order control V.
Yeah.
DESC.
Here is.
Yes.
Reverse.
Is equal to true.
So this is a reverse true.
Here is the reverse.
So this is let me just print here.
Print.
Sort pass a student DSC.
This is C double this is print.
Oh.
Ascending order.
And this is printed descending order.
Print.
Descending.
Order so that will be.
Complex. You can use the simple one.
First you will make it ascending and
descending.
Then you can do the philtre after that.
But here you already have write the
things then you want to philtre.
That's also you can do that.
After that you want to short it.
So this is the ascending order.
The default is ascending.
Yeah.
If you want to descending,
you have to reverse as well.
Yeah.
Reverse meant ascending to become
descending. There are both the things.
OK. Thank you, Sir.
Yes, we go.
In public.
You have to do the.
That means you can be available for this
8.4.
When it goes, when it goes with,
you simply points from here.
But if I'm picking one way.
And if you want to convert it to
dictionary you will light here one more.
Action, Ed.
Right, similarly here.
Dictionary.
Output will not change here is it will
that build bracket has become the curly
braces.
Now if you want in the same format like
this one.
So you can copy paste this and it will
also work.
The folder should I write?
It's a copy paste from here control C and
you can paste it here.
Should I write one function to do that?
No. Otherwise it will be too much for you,
huh?
I can write one function so every time we
need not to write this code,
we just pass that one. OK. Anyway,
let me write this one first,
then I will show you.
We'll use the function.
Joe here is control X.
Controlling and here is.
Descending one you will copy this control
C and you paste it here Control V and in
place of this short pass students PSC.
The ESC.
And here is control.
No, here this is new ascending order.
This is descending order descending order.
This is due to only based on the marks
not based on the name, right.
Dictionary and.
If you are using without dictionary,
it is not the dictionary,
it will be even this one.
One list it will be a list in the list
format.
It will show you just the collection.
See here.
Then you can't use this function.
This one you are using here this full
loop if you are using without dictionary
so you can't traverse like this one.
We have see.
Let me show you.
I'm showing one more to you.
I'm writing here control P this is
without dictionary. You want, right?
So I'm writing here just a second.
For her only.
So if you don't want to write,
you can leave it. Fine.
So this one is I'm writing.
The Blue Dictionary without dictionary,
right? So I have printed.
Start.
Listen just to show.
This one question he asked without this
one, how is it so?
Where is this is without dictionary? Fine.
We'll see. It's. How is it?
It's not in curly braces.
It's not in the dictionary. Right.
And if you use the for loop it will give
you the error. It will not work that way.
So this is without one.
Should I remove it?
I want to show you when if we want to
print through a method,
what the benefit you will get.
I will show you.
First you will do this then I will show
you that you will do because otherwise
we'll be too much.
So you will do up to this level.
A bit so G.
This theorist.
Fine. So first we have created.
Let me explain it one by one. First,
we have created a dictionary, right?
This is the student dictionary.
It have the name and the number.
Then we have write print all the students.
We have printed all the students.
We will go to the dictionary.
K is for Key, V for value in students,
marks dot items.
So this K is denote to the name and V is
number.
Here we have displayed the number and
then the sorry name and then the marks.
So name is K for example Sam.
And marks is 60,
Raj 55 May 35 Sunday this all we have up
to Garima. 54 We have display.
No.
This is the this is all students you want
to print. You can print all the student.
Now we want only the pass student so we
have right here pass student dictionary.
We'll go to convert it to the dictionary
we have filtered it based on the students
who have greater than 50 marks.
And we have put inside the pass students.
We have displayed the pass student right
then one is asked can we short it.
So we have shorted the default short is
ascending order we have displayed here in
the ascending order of shorting.
Fine. Then we have created again.
We have do it in the descending order in
the descending order. If you want to do,
you have to just reverse is equal to true.
The same code will be there just you have
right reverse it is equal to true.
Then we have printed the descending order.
So we have print here one we have print
here two we have print here 3 if you want
to print here as well this is 4 so four
time we have print we have written the
same code four time so this code is
repetitive this code we can put inside a
function and we will pass the value and
it will print every time.
I can show you that also if you want,
otherwise it's OK.
Deep.
You should, so I'm sorry.
The first students to items is just to
short to display,
display the key and then the short short
is just to order them.
Order them first is that.
Oh.
It's me.
Causes to know.
Because we want to,
let me tell you key is equal to Lambda
XX1. What that means?
It means the shorting on based on what
you want to do the shorting we want to do
the shorting based on name.
Or you want to do the shorting base on
value.
So if you want to do the shorting based
on the value,
for example we want to do shorting based
on the 11 means this is 0 very much 01 is
marks.
So we want to do the shorting based on
marks.
If you write 0 then it will short based
on the name,
so we don't want based on the name we
want based on the marks who have got the
last mark then he will come then next
here who have got the highest marks that
will come then the next highest then so
on so.
OK,
so we want to do the shorting based on
the. The key means the key the term.
Based on that you want to do the shorting.
The key to do the shorting.
If we don't put the key here,
you are asking if we don't put this one
right.
If you have not put the key, see here.
See you soon.
You have not put the key where by the
sending the Garima 5476 it's does do
nothing 5476.
It's not doing the shorting because you
don't know how to do the short.
Yeah.
It's.
Where?
Student when we feel philtre yes,
after the philtre and bracket this,
this one, this one you are asking.
Here, here is why. Why is it here?
Is what we have right here. Here we have,
right. I. You can write any word.
Here is the I should be greater than
equal to 50. We have read the condition.
The key should be greater than.
50 you want.
You have the confusion with this one,
right? Yeah.
You you have right to this Lambda.
This is key is actually here is for
shorting.
There is a keyword key that you have to
use key.
Fine.
And this is you can give any name to this
one ABCD.
Here we have the given I we can write
here X also if you want X here.
Right, this is not related. This is XXI.
It's not an issue,
but that key is means on based on what
you want to do the shorting. For example,
if you have right here zero,
let me show you.
The rate is 0 here.
Also you have rate the zero fine.
Let me show you control E.
Earless.
What you will see here.
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNO right. So first is G,
then N, then R, then S and then name SRNG.
0 means it's doing the shorting base on
name 1 means it's doing the shorting base
on marks. You got it from there.
I'm telling you,
just zero means the first thing and the
one means the next one.
If you want to do the short,
that's why I ask him.
On which one you want to do the shorting
based on name or based on marks, he says.
Sir, I want based on marks,
so that's why I write one.
If he said based on name then I put the 0.
You got it.
That's that.
So everything have the importance.
That's why I've asked which one you want,
he said no,
I want based on the marks who get the
marks 1st and so on.
So if someone say we want the shorting
based on the name,
so then you have right here what you
would like 0.
Let them write.
Kill it. All of you online as well.
Clear, clear answer.
To to to Philtre and short based on that.
Yeah.
Based on what you want,
this is the key of shorting.
Based on that, what you want to do short,
right? If based on name you want to do so,
then you can write 0 so it will do the
base on 0.
The shorting key means the way the key
for shorting, that's that meaning.
Yeah.
I have showed you you can put the zero in
place of one.
You will see that it will short based on
the name. The names you have in your list.
Is.
I think.
Listen.
I.
Secret.
It was taking for the me.
This.
Pardon.
Up.
Done.
Stuck somewhere?
Hello.
Yes.
Determine if we write the code and the
terminal run as long as the terminal run
well, no problem.
So you do what terminal learning. Well,
you will go here.
Yeah, let's.
Yeah. I mean,
if we if we write the code before we run
the terminal, right,
and we after write the code and we run
Hmm.
the terminal as long as the terminal show
we the result.
It's all. No problem. Is it OK?
If it is showing you the correct result,
then no problem.
OK. Thank you, Sir.
You have to check what result do you want,
right? So that's also you have to check.
Fine so now.
OK, done this one. All of you clear.
OK. Let me just go here. Philtre,
we have done map.
We have done even the short one we have
done so here is the question you can ask
to yourself,
right all of you what is a function in
Python?
Ask to yourself just in your mind what is
function in Python.
Have you asked to yourself?
So what do you look good?
What is the answer?
Function is a block of code that we will
write and we can call it whenever is
required.
We can pass the parameters in the
functions right,
so function is a block of code that we
can write. We can use it whenever.
Is required fine to function.
We can pass the parameters to the
functions and function is to enhance the
readability, reusability,
modularity and makes the debugging easy
for you.
How to define a function with default
parameters so you know how to define the
function with default parameters?
All of you how will I go to now?
So you know,
so you know how to define a function
without default parameter.
With the default parameter,
sorry with default parameters.
How we'll define we'll lay to the
function. Let's say welcome.
And,
but let's say we want to define our
functions,
let's say welcome and in the welcome we
have write title is equal to Mr or Miss
default right and then comma we have
write the name.
So we are write the name and then we are
write the title Mr or Miss.
By default if user have enter Mr so it
will give the Mr or if you enter miss it
will give the miss.
But if you have not enter anything Mr or
miss so it's automatically show you Mr or
miss both things written there got it.
For example we have take the name ID and
city and city default we have set.
This KL right so if user have entered the
city,
let's say I have entered New Delhi but
you have not entered any city so your
city by default will be KL so that is the
default parameters.
Then what is Lambda functions?
That you have just done.
What is Lambda function?
Michelle, what is Lambda function?
The Lambda functions are function that
don't have the name.
We will write one liner like you have
write add and you have write here column
AB then the Lambda you have write A+B so
that is.
One liner function.
Those are known as Lambda function.
See here.
This one.
This is a Lambda function Lambda X comma
yx plus Y.
So add is equal to Lambda X comma Y colon
X + y.
This is the Lambda function I have showed
you add average multiply division.
I have showed you those methods right?
And the that's still a Lambda function.
Then difference between map and philtre
what map do?
Philtre is philtre out the data and map
is based on your criteria.
It will show you see here.
This is the example of map you have done.
Let me show you here.
Uh.
Map you have done the this is map example
map list Lambda 2X numbers.
So based on the things you want to do
multiply to each and every number of the
list. It will do.
It will do the mapping of that and give
you that things.
Then the next one is philtre philtre it
philtre means you want to philtre the
database on a criteria.
For example you want to find out the data
that is divisible by two the numbers or
even numbers only.
Or you want the pass student only or fail
student only,
so those things you want to do,
you can use the philtre in that case if
you want to philtre out the data,
these things you should know since you
should practise later on.
Once you will start the advanced topic,
there you have to use these and that time
we will not discuss what he's doing.
We just discuss the other stuff there.
That will be the part for example input
print that we have discussed in the day
one.
Now we are not discussing those things
because you already know what input is
doing.
And what print is doing later on once you
already know this?
What function is doing what Lambda is
doing,
what this doing so then you need not to
focus on these things.
You will focus to other topics, right?
So.
A function in Python is a block of
reusable code that perform a specific
task.
Function helps make your code modular,
organised and easier to maintain.
Thank you. Now let's start. The next step.
Should we start the next topic now?
Right.
Done.
OK, next is.
Object oriented programming in Python.
Let me upload this content up no now.
This is the day for no this note.
Where is your.
So what we have done up to now,
let me upload it. You can check from here.
This is your folder.
Page #5.
Open in terminal.
Click Add all click permit by fund M.
Define before.
Starting object.
Oriented.
Programming.
Isn't quite done.
Good push.
I have push it here. We'll see here.
The number 5.
So here we have what we have done philtre,
Lambda, map recap. Other things are there,
right?
This is 2 days contained up to now.
The next thing we are going to discuss is.
Object oriented programme.
So the evening break is not required
today because we already have taken a
long break.
So here is we'll go.
So object oriented programming.
See, I will tell you a bit theory first,
then practical we will do right.
So the agenda is we are going to discuss
what is object oriented programme,
we are going to define the class creating
objects, methods, classes,
object constructor, heads on labs.
And after that,
the assessment quid will be there.
So what is object oriented programme
first of all?
See, you know, up to now,
what do you have done?
You have seen the functions up to now,
right? Let me tell you the story,
how the programming is started and what
the meaning of object oriented programme.
See first of all,
the once the the this computers is
created now so that time the people who
is dealing with the computer they will go
and write 010101.
That way they will lie to the programme
there.
So they will try to understand the they
talk directly to the computer.
Computer,
that language was the 01 binary language.
I'm telling you the story I will reach to
this object oriented programme.
I will take 5 minutes of your time right?
So after that the next thing will come
out.
They think it's too tough to write a 01
and remember.
So they have made these 01/01.
One,
they have make small small word that is
known as mean only mix the small words
they have write and they have start
writing the assembly language so that
assembly language later on convert into
this 01 also.
Then later on they have started creating
the high level language,
but those languages that is function
oriented function or procedure oriented
languages.
So procedure means for example you want
to calculate the bonus,
you'll write the function and you'll
calculate it you want.
You want to do the average.
You will let the average function.
You will do it whatever the function you
need.
You need to do some sort of transaction
for that.
They will write the function and they do
it.
That is known as procedural programming
or function oriented programme.
But that is also not that's so cool.
So they have is then this object oriented
programming is come out into the picture.
Which one object oriented programming.
So what is object oriented programming?
For example you want to design this.
Institute or Academy? Right. So what?
We will think what we need to design.
I'm telling you the real time thing first.
What we need to design Academy.
We need the trainers. We need projectors.
We need laptops. We know chairs,
we need tables. Fine.
So those sort of things we need.
So all the things that we need,
we have make the group.
And give a name so that group is a
blueprint, for example,
that is known as here class.
So we have put all the group together.
Then we have a start creating the
instance of those things.
For example we have make the group of
chairs right, then every chair might be.
The different characteristic one chair is
rolling chair.
One chair is the simple chair,
one is big chair, one is wooden chair,
one so different, different. Similarly,
the employees they might have the
different thing one is.
Let's say one is pion, one is the colour,
one is CEO, one is trainer,
one is the accountant, right?
They have the different different
categories.
So in object oriented programming we will
focus on the object.
We will focus on the object based on the
object. We will create the project.
We will not create the project based on
functionality,
but we will create the object based on.
We will create the project based on
objects.
So that is object oriented programme.
For example you want to create a project
on employee management.
So what you will think you will think
about the employee.
So first the all the things that the
similar we will make a class.
The class is a object factory or a
blueprint of object.
So we will think about employee so
employee have how many characteristic
what employee can do,
what things we need so employee can have
his ID. Everyone should have a unique ID,
employee ID. Everyone should have a name.
Everyone should have a qualification,
right?
And they have some sort of task that they
are doing.
They have some sort of the timing which
time they are coming to the office,
what time they are going to office.
They have some sort of salary. Fine.
So those things that is required,
we will put together.
So we will make a combination of that one
now let's say the employee come out Adila
is the first employee for example.
So Adila is a real time entity of
employee class. Then she is,
Samina is the another employee, right?
So she also have one ID she have for
example one.
You have two. Misha, have three.
You have four and you have 5. Ma'am,
have six. So they have different ID,
different name, different qualification.
Different different timing.
Or maybe same timing. It's fine.
So the class is a collection of objects.
So we will create the object,
then the task, the task,
what the task they are doing,
the task we will define by the function
you have seen the functions.
So the task of that one we will define
with the functions.
Then after that that other employees have.
Then after that we can divide them also.
So that class is known as generalised
class.
Then after that we divide the employee.
Also if you have very big organisation so
the the similar kind of employee together
the employee.
For example let's say the faculties all
the trainers in one class.
All the colours in one class because they
have the similar thing,
but they have derived from the employee
class.
For example employee have the ID and name
qualification.
So every trainer have ID and name
qualification but the trainer have
subject also what they are teaching right?
Then then the colour is doing something,
so we will think that way and then we
will design the project.
We will not think only about the function.
So that programming is known as object
oriented programme. We got it.
What is object oriented programming?
Then we will start discussing it here it
what is OOP, oops,
object oriented programming concepts.
Then we are going to define a class what
is a class.
Then we are going to create the object of
the class.
Then we are going to discuss the methods
in the class.
Then we are going to discuss about the
constructor.
Constructor means to construct the class.
The initial initialise the class.
Then we will discuss the labs exercises
and then question answer that you will
not answer. I will ask you.
Find.
OK.
So object oriented programming is a
programming paradise or concept based on
the concept of objects.
This object oriented programming is based
on the objects.
So here is key concept that you are going
to learn here are.
Class object, method encapsulation,
inheritance, polymorphism.
So Python is fully supports object
oriented programming,
so we are going to discuss today class
objects.
Method is the functions you have right
inside the class.
It will write to the function that is
known as method here.
Same thing function we will put inside
the cloud that become methods.
That's the method.
So a class is a blueprint for creating
object.
I already told you class is a blueprint
of creating object or class is a object
factory. Fine. Class is a template.
You can say anything.
Class is a template class.
Is a blueprint class. Is a object factory.
You can see any definition. All are same.
A class is a blueprint for creating the
object.
Class is a template class is a object
factory.
If one template you have designed,
this is the template.
Based on that we want to do, right?
So that is class.
So how we will write the class in
programming we will write class then we
will write class name.
After that we will write all that methods
attribute there. For example you have.
Created a class car so car is a class,
car is a object factory,
car is itself nothing.
So if once you will go let's say proton,
X-76 so that is one object of the car you
have write Hyundai.
Some car name so that is one object.
So car is a blueprint.
You tech said this is a car,
so car is nothing itself.
You say ACAC is nothing but once we'll
discuss that is the real time entity you
say laptop.
Laptop is a class right in the laptop you
you have defined that in the laptop.
There should be some sort of RAM,
some sort of this one is screen,
screen size, Bluetooth, wireless.
This that all the characteristic of
laptop you will write so laptop.
Is a blueprint. The laptop is a blueprint.
It is a object factory. It is a template.
Once you create the,
let's say this MacBook.
So MacBook is the real time entity.
This MI is a real time entity, this one.
This one is a real time entity, right?
So the class similarly in the programming
class means we will define the
characteristic once we want to create the
object that is the real time ended,
got it. So class is a template.
Then we will create the real time object
of that thing.
Here is objects are instance of a class.
Objects are instance of the class
instance. Means real time entity instance.
Example.
See I you are.
Let's say you are telling two kids. See,
he or she asked you what is car.
So you will define what is car.
Then you will show her the example.
You will show some car that this is
Hyundai this is.
Proton, this is Ferrari. This is that.
So those pictures you will show,
those are the instances.
Those are the examples. Similarly,
the objects are instance of a class.
For example you have created a car one.
So this is an object.
Then you will call those methods that.
Can do.
For example you have like describing the
lion. So Lion have what lion can do.
Lion can roar.
Right Lion have four legs and all.
Then you you will create one object of
lion and you can call those things.
So similarly here we will create the
object and use them.
And then inside that we can write the
methods.
Methods are function defined inside a
class. You know the functions already.
So for example we have write the function
inside the class that is known as method.
For example, here is the simplest.
I'm writing the simple simple thing is
here. For example,
you have created a class,
class name is let's say employee and in
the employee class you have a method.
Let me show you first this one,
we have a class dog inside that we have
the method bark. Dog can bark right?
So this is the method.
Once we will create the object of the dog.
Let's say we have created object first
dog right. So first dog can bark.
This is the method.
So method is function like the function
you write definite.
Function function name and here the
parameter call and then you have write to
the value.
Functions you have done this function
inside the class. This is class dog colon.
Inside that you have write this one you
see the tab. So this is inside the class.
That's why we call it matter.
So function inside the class is known as.
Function inside the class is known as.
Methods, right?
OK.
There is.
There is one special kind of method
inside the class.
I repeat there is a one special kind of
method inside the class that runs
automatically whenever you will create
the object of the class.
That method is known as constructor.
I repeat,
there is a special kind of method inside
the class that is run automatically
whenever you will create the object of
the class.
See if you want to call the method,
how do you call the method?
You will let the object name dot.
Method name to call the method name.
But this constructor you need not to call
whenever you will create the object,
it is called automatically.
So this method is known as constructor
and the name of this method is always in
it. You will light this way.
Underscore INIT underscore method that is
constructor.
This will be the same in this Python.
It will be the you have to write this way
in other programming the this constructor
have the same name as class but forget
about other programming.
In Python you have to use this.
This one this is in need.
This is constructor so constructor is a
special kind of method that is called
automatically whenever you will create
the object of the class.
It is used to initialise objects
attributes.
Where we use we use to initialization
purpose.
Let me show you one example.
Should I show you one practical of clause?
The rest theory will write later on.
We'll discuss later on.
So here is the class.
Yes, you want to say something.
Was he? Excuse me?
See here. We will go here.
Uh.
This is your folder, huh?
A5 Let me open it.
Just one example that we will do this
object under programming Monday from
scratch. Just to start you can read out.
I will share this content during this
Saturday,
Sunday right we will start it from Monday
but just one example I'm showing you.
Here I'm writing the.
What the name you want to give?
OOP example one dot .
Object oriented concept example one dot Y
you have right here.
Let me just write from scratch.
You have right class class name is let's
say employee.
You are a deaf.
The spelling.
And.
Display off.
Employee glass.
Yeah.
Fine, just this one.
One method we are right inside the
employee class.
Done right.
That reboot nothing I have write this one
function.
One method I have write so how we will
call the method we will create the object
of the class to create the object will
write EMPOBJ.
We'll create the object and we'll call.
We'll do it first.
E of employee dot.
Let's spell it.
We have created the object.
This is object let me call it obj.
This is obj dot display.
This is one object, right?
It is CLS clear screen.
You have right here Python.
And here is 4 OP underscore EX1 dot .
Open.
He's giving some hand.
Suzanne means we are not passing any
parameter here,
so it's just add the rate of employee
it's inside this without parameter.
If you want we have to write inside the
class we have to write the self.
So now it's OK see this the function and
this one is just you have to pass from
yourself.
Otherwise, we'll be better do it.
We have created this object and then we
have just called the display.
The syntax is clear. We will write this.
This is the syntax.
Let me write the syntax for you.
You're down. So we'll write class.
This is keyword.
Then we'll write the class name.
Class name. Then we'll let this colon.
After that,
we will let the definition of class.
Plus.
Tribute method, ETC,
method constructors ETC.
Whatever you want to write you can write
after that right constructors.
Then to call the this one to use the
class. The syntax it will light the.
Object name could be anything,
object name is equal to class name.
That's very good. And to call it,
we will let object name dot.
My third name.
And from here we will pass the arguments
if it is any parameters here.
It is not anything we will just remove
this without the method.
So here is see here class name is
employee so we have created the object
object name could be anything we have
write obj.
You can write ABCD anything obj dot
display.
If you want to create one more object you
can create.
You can write here.
Let's say EE is equal to.
EMP.
So there is one more object you have
created. Then you are write E dot display.
You have called the display again you
want to print.
You can print it again, so here is.
What? What is the name of file Python,
the name OOP underscore EX1 dot PY so
display of employee class display of
employee Class 2 objects I have created.
And I have call it twice,
so this is the first object.
This is first employee for example.
This is second employee.
You can call it anything OBJ E1E2 right?
So I have just tell you how to write the
class and how to access the method from
the class, right?
All object oriented programming things we
will discuss Monday in the details that's
here just to start something.
Online 1 clear up to this level.
OK, Sir.
Clear, Sir.
Play song.
Yeah.
Play song.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.